# 3.0 migration

- Requires TypeScript v4.4 or greater, as we rely on new syntax and features.
- Dropped Node.js v10 support. Now requires v12.17 and above.
- Dropped Internet Explorer 11 support (for packages with browser code). Now requires the latest
  versions of Edge, Chrome, or Firefox.

## @boost/common

### Changed `Path` to be more performant and OS compliant

The [`Path`](/api/common/class/PathResolver) class was designed as an abstraction around file system
and Node.js module paths to provide seamless interoperability between different operating systems.
While it achieved this, it did so by replacing all path separators with `/`, which works on both
POSIX and Windows, but wasn't exactly correct for Windows. It also incurred a performance cost by
constantly normalizing and replacing the path parts. We wanted to remedy this, so the following
changes have been made:

- Path separators are no longer forced to `/` and instead will be OS native: `/` on POSIX, `\` on
  Windows.
- Path normalization is now deferred until the `path()` method is called, instead of being called on
  every `Path` instantiation.

While this change was beneficial for file system paths, it had the unfortunate side-effect of
breaking all Node.js module `Path`s, as they must always use forward slashes `/`. To remedy this, a
new `ModulePath` class has been added specifially for Node.js modules, and any reference to the
`Path` type has been replaced with a new `Pathable` interface.

This is most noticeable with [`PathResolver`](/api/common/class/PathResolver), as it may return
either a `Path` or `ModulePath` instance. To utilize methods on these instances, they must now be
type cast.

```ts
const path = new PathResolver().resolvePath();

// When a file system path is found
(path as Path).isFile();

// When a node module is found
(path as ModulePath).hasScope();
```

Furthermore, this change was also detrimental to unit tests that run in both POSIX and Windows
environments. Typically tests are written in POSIX styled paths (Boost was), which worked before on
Windows, but will now fail since we no longer force the path separators to be the same. To remedy
this, we now provide test utilities that are operating system aware, which can be imported from
[`@boost/common/test`](/api/common-test).

```ts
// Before
expect(somePathInstance).toEqual(new Path('some/file/system/path'));
expect(somePathInstance.path()).toBe('some/file/system/path');
```

```ts
import { mockFilePath, normalizeSeparators } from '@boost/common/test';

// After
expect(somePathInstance).toEqual(mockFilePath('some/file/system/path'));
expect(somePathInstance.path()).toBe(normalizeSeparators('some/file/system/path'));
```

### Changed `PathResolver` to be async

The [`PathResolver`](/api/common/class/PathResolver) class and its resolve methods were synchronous
by design (only because `require.resolve()` was). Since we're moving to an "ESM first and only"
approach, we removed the `require.resolve()` compatibility and updated the resolver signature to be
async. The resolver also accepts a "starting directory" in which to resolve from.

This change will support the future `import.meta.resolve()` API, but until that lands, the class
will use the [`resolve`](npmjs.com/resolve) npm package internally.

```ts
// Before
import { PathResolver } from '@boost/common';

const resolver = new PathResolver();
const path = resolver.resolve();
```

```ts
// After
import { PathResolver } from '@boost/common';

const resolver = new PathResolver();
const path = await resolver.resolve(__dirname);
```

> If you require a synchronous API, unfortunately, you will need to implement that functionality
> yourself.

### Removed `parseFile` function

The `parseFile()` function has been removed as it partially relied on `requireModule()`, which has
also been removed (below).

However, similar functionality can be achieved with the [`json`](/api/common/namespace/json) and
[`yaml`](/api/common/namespace/yaml) serializers, or simply native `require()`.

```ts
// Before
import { parseFile } from '@boost/common';

const contents = parseFile('file.js');
const contents = parseFile('file.json');
const contents = parseFile('file.yaml');
```

```ts
// After
import { json, yaml } from '@boost/common';

const contents = require('file.js');
const contents = json.load('file.json');
const contents = yaml.load('file.yaml');
```

### Removed `requireModule` and `requireTypedModule` functions

These functions have moved to the new [`@boost/module`](../module.mdx) package.

```ts
// Before
import { requireModule } from '@boost/common';

const result = requireModule('foo');
```

```ts
// After
import { requireModule } from '@boost/module';

const result = requireModule('foo').default;
```

## @boost/cli

### React components and hooks must be imported from new module path

In an effort to reduce startup time and evaluation cost, all React components and hooks provided by
Boost must now be imported from `@boost/cli/react`.

```ts
// Before
import { Help, Style } from '@boost/cli';
```

```ts
// After
import { Help, Style } from '@boost/cli/react';
```

### Updated `useRenderLoop` argument to accept seconds

Previously, the [`useRenderLoop()`](/api/cli-react/function/useRenderLoop) hook required the FPS
interval in milliseconds, which is a bit confusing. This has been changed to seconds, as we do the
calculation internally.

```ts
// Before
import { useRenderLoop } from '@boost/cli/react';

useRenderLoop(30 / 1000); // 30 FPS
```

```ts
// After
import { useRenderLoop } from '@boost/cli/react';

useRenderLoop(30); // 30 FPS
```

### Removed shorthand commands

Instead of using `Command` classes, Boost supported a feature known as shorthand commands, where an
object of options, params, config, etc, could be passed during registration (below).

```ts
program.register<BuildOptions, BuildParams>(
  'build',
  {
    description: 'Build a project',
    options: {
      minify: { description: 'Minify source files', type: 'boolean' },
    },
    params: [
      { description: 'Name of project', label: 'name', type: 'string' }
    ]
  },
  function build(this: TaskContext, options: BuildOptions, params: BuildParams, rest: string[]) => {
    // ...
  },
);
```

While this feature is nice for its simplicity, it was rather complicated to support internally as we
had multiple layers of abstractions and proxies to get it working correctly. With the new deferred
registration functionality, shorthand commands were forcing us into a more complex implementation,
so we opted to remove them entirely.
