---
title: 4.0 migration
sidebar_label: '4.0'
---

This is a rather simple release, as the APIs themselves are relatively stable. The biggest changes
are migrating to `.cjs` and utilizing Node.js package `exports`, both in preparation for migrating
to ECMAScript modules (`.mjs`).

## All packages

- Requires TypeScript v4.7 or greater.
- Dropped Node.js v12 support. Now requires v14.15 and above.
- Updated many dependencies to their latest major version.

### Migrated to CommonJS (`.cjs`)

With the help of [Packemon](https://packemon.dev/), all packages are now shipped as CommonJS
(`.cjs`). This change is an initial step before migrating entirely to ECMAScript modules (which may
be the next major version), as it unlocked the ability to also ship
[`.mjs` wrappers for our package entry points](https://packemon.dev/docs/features#automatic-mjs-wrappers-for-cjs-inputs).
Without this wrapper, named/default imports would _not_ work correctly within `.mjs` files.

We don't expect this change to cause issues, but we wanted to document it incase you happen to run
into weird module problems!

### Migrated to Node.js `exports`

All packages now utilize the new `package.json`
[`exports` feature](https://nodejs.org/api/packages.html#package-entry-points). For the most part,
if you're importing from Boost modules using the package index, then this shouldn't affect you.
However, if you're importing subpaths from Boost modules, like `@boost/common/test` or
`@boost/cli/react`, then these may no longer work depending on the tooling you're using. The
following minimum versions of popular tools must now be used:

- Jest v28
- TypeScript v4.7
- Webpack v5

Another side effect of this change is that our internal files (those in `lib/` or `cjs/`) can no
longer be directly imported!

## @boost/module

### Updated ESM loader paths

Because of our move to [`exports`](#migrated-to-nodejs-exports), the paths to our ESM loader files
have changed to the following:

- `@boost/module/loader.mjs` -> `@boost/module/loader`
- `@boost/module/loader/typescript.mjs` -> `@boost/module/loader-typescript`
