---
title: 5.0 migration
sidebar_label: '5.0'
---

Because boost is relatively stable (there has been no changes in months), this release is all about
migrating to ESM, and updating dependencies.

## All packages

- Requires TypeScript v5 or greater.
- Dropped Node.js v16 support. Now requires v18.12 and above.
- Updated many dependencies to their latest major version.
- Migrated all test utilities from Jest to Vitest.

### Migrated to ECMAScript modules (`.mjs`)

We have finished our migration to modules, and all packages are now purely ESM, as we ship `.mjs`
files and utilize module-based `exports`. The only exception to this is `@boost/module`, which still
ships some `.cjs` files to support `require()` augmentation.

With the migration to ESM, we also see the following benefits:

- Increased performance and reduced memory usage.
- Packages are now easily tree-shakeable.
- They utilize more modern features and syntax.

### Package test utilities are now async

Some test utilities in the `/test` entry point for individual packages have been updated to be
async. This includes functions like `mockDebugger` and `mockLogger`. This change was made to support
the new Vitest testing framework.

## @boost/common

- Migrated from `resolve` to `enhanced-resolve` for `PathResolver`. This is to support
  `package.json` exports. We currently support the `import`, `require`, and `node` conditions.

## @boost/config

- Loading of `.js`, `.cjs`, and `.mjs` files now utilizes dynamic `import()` instead of `require()`.
  The configuration must also be the default export.

## @boost/cli

- Upgraded to and now requires React v18.
- Upgraded to and now requires Ink v4. Now uses a WASM based Yoga engine.

## @boost/module

- Migrate to the new Node.js hooks API, from the old loader API. Because of this, imports were
  changed:
  - `@boost/module/loader.mjs` -> `@boost/module/register` (registers all hooks)
  - `@boost/module/loader/typescript.mjs` -> `@boost/module/hook-typescript` (the TypeScript hook
    itself)

## @boost/plugin

- Updated the `Loader` to use dynamic `import()` for loading modules, instead of our `requireModule`
  function from `@boost/module`. This is to support both CJS and ESM files.

## @boost/test-utils

- Migrated from Jest to Vitest.
- Removed the `copyFixtureToMock` function.

## @boost/translate

- Updated `createTranslator` to be async.
- Added support for `.cjs` and `.mjs` files for translation resources.
